All right.
So far in our study of relativistic mechanics, we've identified several ripple effects that were introduced
into the body of physics as a result of completely redefining and reshaping our conception of space
and time.
What exactly did we discover?
We found that as a result of introducing these new concepts regarding space and time, we had to completely
redefine our conception of momentum and energy and in redefining them, they had a lot of several intriguing
implications that came along for the ride.
However, we did not really look into or ask one very essential question, which is particularly important
for this course.
And that is the following if we make a measurement of momentum or energy in one inertial frame, is
it also true in another inertial frame?
In other words, is our measurement of both of these quantities absolute.
OK.
And this is particularly important in this course because we spent so much time and energy trying to
bridge the gap between an infinite set of perceptions or perspectives of the universe, right?
Ultimately, our goal was to come up with this nice universal conception of the universe that was absolute
such that individuals and different reference frames could discuss their experiences and they could
be aligned.
OK, now, as you can imagine, when you measure momentum and energy and as we have discovered in previous
lectures, if you have, you know, like the ideas of loss, the addition and it changes between reference
frames, it's pretty straightforward.
See that if you measure momentum and one reference frame, it's going to be different in another reference
frame, which completely destroys that nice bridge we put together for space time.
So what we're going to do in this video is we're going to try and correct that issue by reconstructing
that bridge.
Refining it and making sure it allows us to measure momentum and energy.
You one reference frame and related to that same measurement and another reference frame.
In other words, we'll try to make these quantities absolute.
OK.
In order to do that, let's review what we've discovered with momentum and energy.
And then we're going to start constructing that bridge now, as we found previously with momentum and
energy.
They have to be modified by this Lorentz factor, which is a function of the velocity of any kind of
particle we're analyzing.
OK, so we need to find momentum by redefining it.
We said that we have a scanner tied to the original definition and not be.
And in essence, what happens is as we get closer to the speed of light, relativistic effects crop
up and inertia builds up, so it's harder to further accelerate.
Similarly, we found that for relativistic energy, we had this growth factor times the rest mass and
not Times Square.
OK, now the first thing I want to talk about is, you know, when we try to relate these guys and try
to come up with this idea, that's absolute.
We may come up with a formula or relationship that allows us to convert between the two, and that would
be convenient.
And in fact, that's what we have done in classical mechanics.
Let's let's review what happened.
So we know these relativistic quantities, but in classical mechanics, we said that, you know, if
you have energy and your total energy is composed of, let's say, kinetic energy based upon how you
define your reference for potential energy, we can say the kinetic energy, which is equal to one half
and be squared, is equal to the momentum squared over two m and I.
You use useful relation where if we knew momentum, we could quickly convert it into kinetic energy.
OK.
So when we're trying to get this translational tool similar to the Lawrence transformation for space
time, but for momentum and energy, it would be nice if we could relate these to at the same time.
OK, now the first relationship we're going to put together is not the ultimate one that bridges the
gap, but it's going to help to motivate us and elicit some different terms that we're going to find
in that relationship.
The first thing we're going to do is when we look at these definitions here, we see that they have
common factors, the Lorenz factor down here, this square root term here.
And if we divide them, we could cancel out a lot of terms.
And you end up with a pretty interesting quantity.
For example, we could get rid of these square roots.
We could get rid of the A. And we'll be left with the velocity and the speed of light.
So let's do that and see what happens.
So if we divide Equation one by Equation two as follows, we get p over e.
These guys cancel and not cancel.
So they're not the square roots 'cause of the square root, as I just mentioned.
And we end up with V Overseas Squared.
Now to make this simpler and to use a term that we've seen.
Use the R relativistic velocity Bayda v oversea.
We can multiply both sides by C drop off that square root term, and what we end up with is PC over
E equals B or C or better.
Now that's an important conclusion, which has a lot of analytical implications when we're running through
problems because if we know better, that's going to tell us that it kills a relation or a feel for
both the relativistic energy and momentum, right?
Furthermore, if we know, if we ever see which is a dimensionless quantity, in other words, it's
a blast of your velocity, which has no dimensions.
That means that whatever's on the top here has to have the same dimensions as the bottom.
So this tells us that we cover light energy and momentum initially by this PC term here.
Basically, says P.S. is nothing more than an expression of energy in and of itself.
So that's pretty interesting.
So we're trying to bridge the gap and come up with this universal quantity and we establish relationships
between EMP.
We expect to have a total energy and a p c term popping out.
This PC term should be related to the kinetic energy because momentum is right.
We can see right here is related to velocity.
It should be related to the kinetic energy that gives us some initial intuition we have when going into
this huge, monumental task of erecting that bridge for relativistic mechanics.
OK, so let's tackle that that issue next in the way in which we're going to do that, we're going to
a similar exercise.
We're going to try and relate Part E and try to pull these terms up.
We're going to see a PC term is going to pop straight out.
OK.
So the way in which we're going to do that is we're going to take Equation two for the total energy,
the total relativistic energy, and we're going to square both sides.
And then we're going to use a trick worry insert this term v squared minus v squared.
Now what is this quantity?
In essence, this quantity is equal to zero, right?
If you take a term and subtract the same term from itself.
You end up with nothing zero.
So if we add this term onto a quantity, it's basically like adding zero and you don't change that quantity.
That's the analytical approach we're going to take here, OK?
So keep that in the back of your head.
We're going to do that pretty quickly in this exercise.
So as I said, squaring equation two, well, we end up with on both sides as each square on the left
and on the right side, we get N-not squared times C to the fourth and then the square root term.
We kick that away.
It vanishes.
We get one minus beta squared with a relativistic velocity we ever see squared.
OK, now this is where we used the trick of inserting zero because what we're going to do is what I
think the C to the fourth, and we're going to split it up into C Square Times Square.
So the a c squared times squared and you add zero onto the second term, right?
This b square amount of this squared.
I didn't change anything here.
This is still the same exact term.
We have lost no value and we have not made any analytical implications.
But what we have gained is we're going to we're going to massage just a bit and we're going to see that
this term is going to start popping out along with other energy terms.
We've explored so far in this course.
Let's do just that.
OK.
So we have to be square miles v squared and that's what we want to do.
But if you want to factor out these terms and see what happens, so let's distribute and not Square
Town C squared times the first time we squared bam, it popped out right there in the first term second
term.
Same exact thing, but we got a minus term in the front right.
Negative and not square.
C squared times.
B squared.
Bam.
That's the second term.
Now the final term, we think, and that's grand c squared.
And we get back this initial term right here.
So we got the smart square C squared or the one minus relativistic velocity of your C squared.
And as you can see, since these guys were equal, they cancel out.
This basically equals zero plus the original term here.
We did not change anything by using this nice fancy trick.
Let's chug along and see what this provides us, what advantage just gives us.
So the first thing I want you to do is I want you to make note on the following.
This guy looks a little similar to equation number one.
And we're trying to pull out that momentum turned up, so perhaps we could massage this a bit and we
can arrange it in a form where it sort of looks like this.
We see an m not.
We see a v there.
They're squared.
But what happened to this radical?
We see that every square that.
We basically get rid of the rifle so we can see there's sort of a pattern here that is squared if we
factor out that c squared.
So let's do just that.
Let's pull the NRA squared v squared over this guy and go straight up here.
OK.
So when we do that, we see that if we take this and square it, we get it, not square v squared over
the quantity one, b or C squared.
Basically, this guy right here, we square that and we pull out c squared as follows.
So as you can see, matching these guys up, we are indeed going to get a momentum tear that pops up.
This works well, all the intuition we built initially in the beginning of this lecture.
Let's chuck long.
So the next thing we need to do, we did that for this term.
We want to sort of grouped these terms and try to simplify this and pull out a nice energy parameter.
So what we're going to do is we're going to note some common terms.
They have the same denominator and we see an enlarge squared c squared here can be square, but this
also has an mark square c square.
So we factor out that and not Square C squared.
We end up with the denominator one minus vs the or C squared and that m Oscar C squared times C squared
minus B squared again.
Let's run through that pouyanne and those squared c squared.
If you multiply that by c squared, we get this term here.
And let's square C to the fourth minus.
Well, multiply by b squared.
We get this term that that yields the bottom.
So we're making headway.
We're making progress.
Let's see what happens next.
What we want to do is we want to hearken back to equation number one, our relativistic momentum, and
we find that this relation is the same as that guy.
We can plug it up.
So it's p square times, c squared.
Bam.
We got that, that nice new energy term.
We just arrived right up here.
OK.
That's what we want to do is we look at this and we see that if we massage it just a little bit, we
can make the top the numerator equal to the denominator and cancel it out.
What we're going to do is for the numerator.
We're going to pull out a C squared and see what happens.
So if we pull out a C squared, we have one C squared there, minus if we multiply by B squared over
C squared and I'm going to write that up right here.
So it's sort of like c squared times one minus v over C, and I'm going to put squared up here.
You multiply that through, you get that turn.
The C Square cancels that and you get the B squared.
So that's what we're going to do because we see that this would cancel back, guy.
So we pull out the C squared.
This becomes and square C to the fourth.
And then what we're left with is just this guy, right?
Because the C Squared has two, we got one there minus b squared.
And what's really cool is you can take this guy, you c numerator because the denominator kick that
guy out, that's equal to one.
And we get a very interesting parameter here.
What does this look like here?
What does that look like?
That looks like our rest energy, right?
We got an end, not squared.
A C squared squared.
So sort of like A. C. Squared that whole quantity squared, and that's exactly what we do.
So we go to the next step.
We know this is energy from up here.
So we know it's sort of like energy squared, which makes sense because we have energy squared over
here.
So we get a PC squared and our energy and not c squared right there.
And ladies and gentlemen, this is the bridge we've been waiting for.
This is the bridge that helps to bridge the gap between an infinite set of perceptions of the universe
and perspectives, and it gives us that nice universal conception of the universe that we're looking
for.
Because if we take this here, we see these are all energy quantities.
But what's interesting is if we move the PC square to the left, we see everything on the left is equal
to and not c squared, which we can say a few things about the rest, energy and off the squared.
This is a constant rate that the measurement of mass arrest is not going to change.
And different reference reigns agree upon that.
And furthermore, different reference frames agree upon a speed of light.
Right.
In all inertial frames.
And not and c squared multiply together is an invariant quantity that's an important application.
It's an invariant quantity.
So if let's say Philip is looking at some kind of event transpire in his reference frame and he calculates
E Squared Mom's P Square based upon measurements in his brain and terrorist does the same exact thing.
This quantity here, it will be the same.
So, yes, Philip may measure one momentum.
Parents may measure another one.
Same with energy.
But when they calculate this quantity here, that will be invariant.
This is an absolute quantity.
It's exactly what we're looking for.
OK.
So it's sort of like a mathematical exercise.
We got two guys up popped out right here.
Relations that are useful.
This allows us to bridge the gap between an infinite set of perceptions, but it also relates momentum
and energy in both instances, also related to the mass, the rest energy and warming up through problems.
This gives us a lot of analytical leverage because if we know the momentum and the mass, we can calculate
the energy pretty quickly and you're going to see that when you run through these problems, and we'll
do an example next.
We can use this to find unknown quantities, and it's going to be extremely, extremely useful.
Next, we're going to take a deeper look at the implications this result has.
And then we're going to see if this can solidify down that guy there, which it should in a classical
sense.